---
layout: post
title: "2012 in review"
date: 2013-01-06 14:09
comments: true
categories: review
---

It's January 6th. Life is less crazy after a [Ruby+Rails Bootcamp](http://elasticbackflip.com/blog/2012/12/12/rails-bootcamp-ruby-basics-and-scaffolding/) I hosted. This is my 2012 in review.

[2012 Events](/blog/2013/2012-in-review#events)  
[2012 Ideaologies](/blog/2013/2012-in-review#idealogies)  
[2013 Goals](/blog/2013/2012-in-review#goals)  

<!-- more -->

<h3 id="events">Major Events</h3>

__Graduated from College__.  
Sept 2008 - May 2012.  
University of Minnesota - Twin Cities, CSE, Mechanical Engineering. GPA 2.74.  
Stopped investing in ME classes in 2011 after I decided to do software post college and experience was more important than GPA. Some say college isn't a good investment. My 5 years of college & 5 legitimate internships exposed me to complex problems and helped me discover I wanted to be paid to engineer world class software. This was worth a lot. Do I wish I didn't have $48k in student loans? Yes, but I'm happy with the result.


__Interned at Oracle__.  
Dec 2011 - March 2012.  
Had an awesome 4 months at Oracle working as a software product QA engineer. Focused on detailed UI whitebox testing (all UI, no code). I learned that I love software, not software QA. The experience confirmed I want to work as a developer. Quit and focused on Rails.

__Freelance Rails Dev in Orlando__.  
June 2012 - Sept 2012.  
2 weeks after graduation, I packed up my car and moved to Orlando, FL to pursue a freelance Rails dev gig. Started my own company (think602). It was a perfect match of what I was passionate about and change and an opportunity to grow. I learned a ton about Ruby and Rails working on [Questionnaire Engine](https://github.com/twinge/questionnaire_engine), a Rails Engine, and debuted as a "professional" developer.

__Moved back to Minneapolis__.  
October 2012.  
Friends and family are worth a lot. I moved back to Minneapolis.  

__Stared work at novu__.  
October 2012.  
Week 1 of being back in Minneapolis, I had 4 Ruby on Rails interviews. I chose to work at a company and not freelance because I wanted to learn & practice developing software products rather than just writing code. I chose novu because they valued my curosity driven spirit and had a razor sharp development team. Working at novu is awesome.

__Hosted [Ruby + Rails Bootcamp](http://elasticbackflip.com/blog/2012/12/12/rails-bootcamp-ruby-basics-and-scaffolding/)__.  
Jan 5, 2013 (2012 since it happened prior to this review)  
I want to teach long term so I made an investment in that direction. Had an amazing turn out of 20+ people for 6 hour event. I learned about how to teach more effectively and can't wait to host the next Bootcamp.

<h3 id="idealogies">Ideaologies</h3>
1: __execution > brilliance__  
2: __cannibalize mediocre ideas into great ideas__  
3: __worthy ideas = impact >= 1 million__  

<br>

<h3 id="goals">2013 Goals</h3>
Be a __world-class__ communicator (life long goal)  
-- clear commit messages  
-- post a blog post each Wednesday  
-- present on software 6 times (currently 1/6)  

Be a __world-class__ developer (life long goal)  
-- #1 committer at work (ie, __iterate fast__)  
-- [fog](http://github.com/fog). doc AWS services and reach top 20 committers  
-- finish out [questionnaire_engine]() and __fully__ integrate with [ccc360](https://github.com/thelabtech/ccc360)   
-- help make another [thelabtech](https://github.com/thelabtech) project awesome  
-- create KISS apps: [backbone](http://backbonejs.org/) and [angular](http://angularjs.org/)  
-- learn the [nodejs](http://nodejs.org/) framework and develop an app  
-- build out my secret project idea 1 + get 1,000 users  
-- build out my secret project idea 2 + get 200 users  


Invest in meaningful relationships with my siblings  
Memorize a chapter of the Bible  
Vacation at the Grand Cayon with friends  
Travel internationally  
Read 20 books  
Payoff $24k of student loans  
Make $5k contribution to the Roth account  

Sound like a daunting 2013? Absolutley.  
I've never felt challenged by small goals.
